Well hello there my curious fellow students, do you have a moment to talk about Jesu… ahem… an ancient oriental love story from Shahnameh?
Shah na what you ask? Shahnameh I say.
Also known as the Persian Book of Kings, it is one of the most popular creations in the history of Islamic art and literature.
Similar to other epics of the world, the Persian Book of Kings features many love stories involving legendary characters.
Among these epic stories is the tale of Shirin and Khusraw.
This illustration from Isfahan, now stored in the National Library of France
captures the scene in which Shirin talks to Khusraw on top of her castle after a long time of heartbreaking separation.
The story begins when Khusraw was no longer “the fearless young man who had cherished Shirin more than his own sight”.
He preoccupied himself with travels, hunts and his battles with Bahram;
leaving Shirin in solitude, weeping for days and nights for their lost love.
*MUSIC* Ahem… anyways one day he decided to hop on his horse and go on a hunt.
It was so grand that thousands of soldiers, hounds, servants and musicians marched with Khusraw.
There were even two hundred slaves and two hundred young servants travelling ahead the group
to scatter water so wind would not stir up the dust and disturb king Parviz.
I wish I was that rich. News of the hunt soon reached Shirin, as expected who lives alone in her castle.
After hearing about Khusraw’s approaching,
Shirin, as you can see, surrounded by her handmaidens, put on her “golden dress scented with musk,
and over it a surcoat of red Byzantine brocade with a gold ground worked with jewels”.
She also “made her cheeks the color of pomegranates”, is it how it's pronounced?
which isn’t really visible here for some reason,
probably because the translation I used is done hundreds of years after,
and “on her head she placed a crown of imperial splendor”,
as it is shown clearly in this illustration.
When Khusraw finally arrived, Shirin, as the beauty with moon-shaped face
and fair complexion in this image, cried, of course.
I don’t know about you but I know I probably would go down and punch him and move on
if I was wearing her shoes after years of ignoring.
with tears running down her cheek Shirin asked Khusraw:
“Oh my lord, my warrior, my king,” “Where is your love now?” Yeah, where were you dude?
Annnd upon hearing this, deeply moved, Khusraw cried as well. He hurried back to finish his hunting…
wait what? I thought he learnt from his mistakes. And what kind of guy plans
a hunting trip passing his love of life’s castle without knowing after ignoring her for so long?
*SUPER UNBERABLE LOUD MUSIC* That’s the last one, I promise.
Annnd finally he come back and married Shirin and sent her to his harem.
What a story! Now, according to the research I’ve done, I know, I know, you all only wanted the story part
but hey, at least you can share this as fun facts on your next date…
seriously don’t do that. Anyways, there are two major types of illustrated Persian manuscripts,
one is picture focused, the other text focused.
This one here clearly belongs to the former. The whole image is done in a two dimensional fashion,
but if you zoom in on the balcony where Shirin stands, you could clearly see
the space behind it indicating the artist’s three dimensional imagination.
Also, if you take a second look here, she looks rather emotionless in this picture;
even her servants look sadder than her with their brows bending downwards,
which makes it kind of odd and funny I guess.
My theory is that the artist may be trying to portray her as the classic beautiful perfect woman
and enforce this idea in the image.
And that is everything I got for you guys today,
hopefully you liked it and have a wonderful day.